
Agriculture Infrastructure Fund — Vikaspedia


Scheme duration
The duration of the Scheme shall be from FY2020 to FY2032 (10 years).

Intended beneficiaries

Agricultural Produce Market Committee
Agri-Entrepreneur
Central sponsored Public-Private Partnership Project
Farmer
Farmer Producers Organization
Federation of Farmer Produce Organisations
Joint Liability Groups
Local Body sponsored Public-Private Partnership Project
Marketing Cooperative Society
Multipurpose Cooperative Society
National Federations of Cooperatives
Primary Agricultural Credit Society
Self Help Group
Federations of Self Help Groups
Start-Up
State Agencies
State Federations of Cooperatives
State sponsored Public-Private Partnership Project

Eligible projects under AIF
A. Eligible projects for all beneficiaries

Organic inputs production
Bio stimulant production units
Nursery
Tissue culture 
Seed Processing
Custom Hiring Center
Infrastructure for smart and precision agricultureFarm/Harvest Automation
Purchase of drones, putting up specialized sensors on field, Blockchain and AI in agriculture etc.
Remote sensing and Internet of Things (IOT) such as automatic weather station, Farm advisory services through GIS applications.
Logistics facilities - Reefer Van& Insulated vehicles
Assaying Units
Supply chain services including e-marketing platforms
Warehouse & Silos
Cold Stores and Cold Chain
Packaging Units
Primary Processing activities

B. Eligible projects for building community farming assets
In addition to above activities farmer groups such as FPOs, PACS, SHGs, JLGs, Cooperatives, National and State Level Federation of Co-operatives, FPOs federations, Federations of SHGs, National and State Level Agencies etc. are eligible for following activities:

Hydroponic Farming 
Mushroom farming 
Vertical farming 
Aeroponic farming
Poly house/ Greenhouse 
Logistics facilities(including non-refrigerated/insulated vehicles)

Benefits

All loans under this financing facility will have interest subvention of 3% per annum up to a limit of Rs. 2 crore. This subvention will be available for a maximum period of seven years.
Further, credit guarantee coverage will be available for eligible borrowers from this financing facility under Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) scheme for a loan up to Rs. 2 crore. The fee for this coverage will be paid by the Government.
In case of FPOs the credit guarantee may be availed from the facility created under FPO promotion scheme of Department of Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare (DACFW).
Moratorium for repayment under this financing facility may vary subject to minimum of 6 months and maximum of 2 years.

How to apply
To apply online, click here.


Checklist of Documents

Bank’s loan application form / Customer Request Letter for AIF Loan duly filled and signed
Passport size photographs of the promoter/partners/director
Identity proof – Voter ID card/PAN card/Aadhaar card/Driving license
Address Proof :

Residence: Voter ID card/Passport/Aadhaar card/Driving license/Electricity Bill/Latest property Tax Bill
Business Office/Registered Office: Electricity Bill/Latest Property Tax Receipt/Certificate of Incorporation in case of Companies/Certificate of Registration in ca of partnership Firms


Proof of Registration

In case of Company : Article of Association
In case of Partnership : Certificate of Registration of Firm with Registrar of Firm
In case of MSMEs : Certificate of Registration with District Industries Centre (DIC)/Udyog Aadhar Copy


Income Tax Return for last three years, If available.
Audited Balance Sheet of last 3 Years, If available.
GST Certificate, if applicable.
Land ownership records – title deed/lease deed. If applicable, then Permission to mortgage the Immovable Property from the Lessor in case the Property is Leasehold (for primary security)
ROC Search Report of the Company
KYC documents of the promoter/firm/company
Copy of Bank Statement for last one year (If available)
Repayment track record of existing loans (Loan Statement)
Net Worth Statements of promoter
Detailed Project Report
As applicable - Local authority permissions, Layout plans/estimates, Building sanction