 



Group Accident Insurance scheme for Fishermen — Vikaspedia



The scheme is being implemented by National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) through M/s Oriental Insurance Company Limited (OICL).
Beneficiaries covered

Fishers include fish workers, fish farmers and any other category of persons directly involved in fishing and fisheries related allied activities.
Men or women fishers in the age group of 18 to 70 years shall be eligible for insurance coverage

Benefits
Eligible beneficiaries covered under insurance scheme will receive

Rs.5.00 lakh against death or permanent total disability
Rs. 2.50 lakh against permanent partial disability
Rs. 25,000 against accidental hospitalization

The entire premium amount will be shared between the Center and State as per the funding pattern of the PMMSY. Thus, no beneficiary contribution is envisaged. 
How to apply for the scheme
Please contact your state Fisheries department for enrollment in the scheme.
For more details, click here. Last Modified  : 12/6/20220   0 ratings and 0 commentsYour RatingRoll over stars then click to rate.© C–DAC.All content appearing on the vikaspedia portal is through collaborative effort of vikaspedia and its partners.We encourage you to use and share the content in a respectful and fair manner. Please leave all source links intact and adhere to applicable copyright and intellectual property guidelines and laws. RELATED ITEMSReservation for EWSThis topic provides information about reservation ...Pre Matric Scholarships Scheme for MinoritiesProvides information on scheme that promotes educa...Top Class Education Scheme for SC StudentsThe scheme aims to recognizing and promoting quali...West Bengal Swasthyasathi Health Insurance SchemeThis topic provides information about West Bengal ...RELATED LANGUAGES Agriculture  Agri Inputs  Crop Production   post-harvest-technologies   Livestock   Poultry   See more ... Health  Women Health  Child Health   NRHM   AYUSH   Nutrition   See more ... Education  Child rights  Policies/Schemes   Childrens Corner   Teachers Corner   online assessment   See more ... Social Welfare  Women and Child Development  scheduled tribes welfare   scheduled caste welfare   backward classes   unorganized sector   See more ... Energy  Energy Basics  energy conservation   Energy efficiency   energy production   Best Practices   See more ... e-Governance  e-Governance in india  About RTI Act 2005   e-Gov Services online   Resources for VLEs   Mobile Governance   See more ...This portal has been developed as part of the national level initiative - India Development Gateway (InDG), dedicated for providing information / knowledge and ICT based knowledge products and services in the domain of social development. InDG is a  Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY)  Government of India initiative and is executed by  Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Hyderabad.  About UsLink to UsContact UsHelpPortal PoliciesSite mapGive Your FeedbackDownload Vikaspedia App onLast Modified  16 February 2024 .   © 2024 C-DAC. All rights reserved.




English to Hindi Transliterate








