 



Interest subvention for dairy sector — Vikaspedia


To offset the economic impact of Covid-19 on Dairy Sector, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying has introduced a new scheme “Interest subvention on Working Capital Loans for Dairy sector” for Supporting Dairy Cooperatives and Farmer Producer Organizations engaged in dairy activities (SDC&FPO). The scheme will be implemented through National Dairy Development Board (NDDB), Anand
Period of implementation
The scheme was initiated during 2020-21. GoI has now extended the same for the period of 2021-22 to 2025-26 with an outlay of Rs. 500 Crore. 
Eligible beneficiaries
Dairy Cooperatives and Farmer owned milk producer companies (such as Milk Unions , Milk Federations , Farmer Owned / Milk  Producer Companies).
Benefits
In order to meet the working Capital needs of the Cooperatives and Farmer owned milk producer companies, Interest subvention will be given on working capital loan taken from scheduled Commercial Banks/R.R.Bs/Cooperative Banks/Financial Institutions by Cooperatives/FPOs for conversion of milk into conserved commodities and other milk products.
The scheme has made provisions for providing interest subvention of 2% per annum, with an additional incentive of 2% per annum interest subvention to be given in case of prompt and timely repayment/interest servicing.
Whom to contact
Please contact your nearest bank or NDDB for more details.
Source : Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry & DairyingLast Modified  : 6/2/20220   0 ratings and 0 commentsYour RatingRoll over stars then click to rate.© C–DAC.All content appearing on the vikaspedia portal is through collaborative effort of vikaspedia and its partners.We encourage you to use and share the content in a respectful and fair manner. Please leave all source links intact and adhere to applicable copyright and intellectual property guidelines and laws. RELATED ITEMSReservation for EWSThis topic provides information about reservation ...Scholarships for Top Class Education for Students with DisabilitiesAims to recognizing and promoting quality educatio...West Bengal Swasthyasathi Health Insurance SchemeThis topic provides information about West Bengal ...Pre Matric Scholarships Scheme for MinoritiesProvides information on scheme that promotes educa...RELATED LANGUAGES Agriculture  Agri Inputs  Crop Production   post-harvest-technologies   Livestock   Poultry   See more ... Health  Women Health  Child Health   NRHM   AYUSH   Nutrition   See more ... Education  Child rights  Policies/Schemes   Childrens Corner   Teachers Corner   online assessment   See more ... Social Welfare  Women and Child Development  scheduled tribes welfare   scheduled caste welfare   backward classes   unorganized sector   See more ... Energy  Energy Basics  energy conservation   Energy efficiency   energy production   Best Practices   See more ... e-Governance  e-Governance in india  About RTI Act 2005   e-Gov Services online   Resources for VLEs   Mobile Governance   See more ...This portal has been developed as part of the national level initiative - India Development Gateway (InDG), dedicated for providing information / knowledge and ICT based knowledge products and services in the domain of social development. InDG is a  Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY)  Government of India initiative and is executed by  Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Hyderabad.  About UsLink to UsContact UsHelpPortal PoliciesSite mapGive Your FeedbackDownload Vikaspedia App onLast Modified  16 February 2024 .   © 2024 C-DAC. All rights reserved.




English to Hindi Transliterate








