 



National Mission on Natural Farming — Vikaspedia


Natural Farming
Natural Farming is a way of chemical free farming based on desi cow and locally available resources, with no chemical fertilizers and pesticides and promotes traditional indigenous practices which give freedom to farmers from externally purchased inputs and is largely based on on-farm biomass recycling with major stress on biomass mulching, use of on-farm desi cow dung-urine formulation; managing pests through diversity, on-farm botanical concoctions and exclusion of all synthetic chemical inputs directly or indirectly and emphasis is given on improving natural nutrient cycling and increase in organic matter in the soil, which can help with climate change resilience and carbon sequestration in soils. 
Mission Objectives

To promote alternative system of farming for freedom from external purchased inputs, cost reduction and thereby increasing income of farmers
To popularize integrated agriculture-animal husbandry models based on desi cow and local resources.
To collect, validate and document Natural Farming practices being practiced in various parts of the country and to encourage participatory research with farmers on further up scaling
To undertake activities for awareness creation, capacity building, promotion and demonstration of Natural Farming.
To create standards, certification procedure and branding for Natural Farming products for national and international markets.

Benefits to farmers

Incentive to farmers for one time on-farm manure production infrastructure: A financial assistance of Rs. 15000/- per ha @ Rs. 5000/- per ha/year for three years 
Training of farmers by Champion farmer and CRP: 6 such trainings of one day duration will be organized at village level for all the farmers in a batch of50 farmers. A sum of Rs. 30,000/- is provided for such trainings @ Rs. 50 per farmer per training. 
 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPO) formation for farmers practicing Natural Farming - 100 FPOs in the Gangetic belt (5 Km Corridor of Ganga Basin) and another 400 FPOs in the rest of the country from the 10,000 FPO scheme being implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare
Farmer Field School – First year of the natural farming mission will be devoted to the awareness creation through Farmer Field School (FFS).

To access the complete scheme guidelines, click here.
To know more, visit http://naturalfarming.dac.gov.in/Last Modified  : 3/31/20230   0 ratings and 0 commentsYour RatingRoll over stars then click to rate.© C–DAC.All content appearing on the vikaspedia portal is through collaborative effort of vikaspedia and its partners.We encourage you to use and share the content in a respectful and fair manner. Please leave all source links intact and adhere to applicable copyright and intellectual property guidelines and laws. RELATED ITEMSWest Bengal Swasthyasathi Health Insurance SchemeThis topic provides information about West Bengal ...Top Class Education Scheme for SC StudentsThe scheme aims to recognizing and promoting quali...Pre Matric Scholarships Scheme for MinoritiesProvides information on scheme that promotes educa...Scholarships for Top Class Education for Students with DisabilitiesAims to recognizing and promoting quality educatio...RELATED LANGUAGES Agriculture  Agri Inputs  Crop Production   post-harvest-technologies   Livestock   Poultry   See more ... Health  Women Health  Child Health   NRHM   AYUSH   Nutrition   See more ... Education  Child rights  Policies/Schemes   Childrens Corner   Teachers Corner   online assessment   See more ... Social Welfare  Women and Child Development  scheduled tribes welfare   scheduled caste welfare   backward classes   unorganized sector   See more ... Energy  Energy Basics  energy conservation   Energy efficiency   energy production   Best Practices   See more ... e-Governance  e-Governance in india  About RTI Act 2005   e-Gov Services online   Resources for VLEs   Mobile Governance   See more ...This portal has been developed as part of the national level initiative - India Development Gateway (InDG), dedicated for providing information / knowledge and ICT based knowledge products and services in the domain of social development. InDG is a  Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY)  Government of India initiative and is executed by  Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Hyderabad.  About UsLink to UsContact UsHelpPortal PoliciesSite mapGive Your FeedbackDownload Vikaspedia App onLast Modified  16 February 2024 .   © 2024 C-DAC. All rights reserved.




English to Hindi Transliterate








