 



Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi — Vikaspedia











Eligibility
All land holding eligible farmer families (subject to the prevalent exclusion criteria) are to avail of the benefits under this scheme.
The following categories of beneficiaries of higher economic status shall not be eligible for benefit under the scheme.

All Institutional Land holders.
Farmer families in which one or more of its members belong to following categories

Former and present holders of constitutional posts
Former and present Ministers/ State Ministers and former/present Members of LokSabha/ RajyaSabha/ State Legislative Assemblies/ State Legislative Councils,former and present Mayors of Municipal Corporations, former and present Chairpersons of District Panchayats.
All serving or retired officers and employees of Central/ State Government Ministries /Offices/Departments and its field units Central or State PSEs and Attached offices /Autonomous Institutions under Government as well as regular employees of the Local Bodies (Excluding Multi Tasking Staff /Class IV/Group D employees)
All superannuated/retired pensioners whose monthly pension is Rs.10,000/-or more (Excluding Multi Tasking Staff / Class IV/Group D employees) of above category
All Persons who paid Income Tax in last assessment year
Professionals like Doctors, Engineers, Lawyers, Chartered Accountants, and Architects registered with Professional bodies and carrying out profession by undertaking practices.


Benefits
Under the PM-KISAN scheme, all landholding farmers' families shall be provided the financial benefit of Rs. 6000 per annum per family payable in three equal installments of Rs. 2000 each, every four months.
How to apply

The eligible farmers may apply with the village Patwaris, revenue officials or other designated officers / agencies and submit their required details to them.
Farmers can also visit their nearest Common Service Centres (CSCs) for registration in the Scheme upon payment of fees.
Farmers can also do their self-registration through the Farmers Corner in the PM KISAN portal. To check the status of the registration, click here.
Details required for registration include  Name, Age, Gender, Category(SC/ST), Aadhaar Number (in case Aadhaar Number has not been issued then Aadhaar Enrollment Number together with any other prescribed documents for purposes of the identification such as Driving Licence, Voters’ ID Card, NREGA Job Card, or any other identification documents issued by Central/State/UT Governments or their authorities,etc.), Bank Account Number and the Mobile Number of the beneficiaries.

For more details visit PM KISAN portalLast Modified  : 12/13/20230   0 ratings and 0 commentsYour RatingRoll over stars then click to rate.© C–DAC.All content appearing on the vikaspedia portal is through collaborative effort of vikaspedia and its partners.We encourage you to use and share the content in a respectful and fair manner. Please leave all source links intact and adhere to applicable copyright and intellectual property guidelines and laws. RELATED ITEMSAnt trapsThis topic covers information about production of ...Agri Export ZonesThis topic provides information related to Agri Ex...Balika Samridhi Yojana (BSY)This topic covers the information related to Balik...Atal Tinkering LaboratoriesThis topic provides information about Atal Tinkeri...RELATED LANGUAGES Agriculture  Agri Inputs  Crop Production   post-harvest-technologies   Livestock   Poultry   See more ... Health  Women Health  Child Health   NRHM   AYUSH   Nutrition   See more ... Education  Child rights  Policies/Schemes   Childrens Corner   Teachers Corner   online assessment   See more ... Social Welfare  Women and Child Development  scheduled tribes welfare   scheduled caste welfare   backward classes   unorganized sector   See more ... Energy  Energy Basics  energy conservation   Energy efficiency   energy production   Best Practices   See more ... e-Governance  e-Governance in india  About RTI Act 2005   e-Gov Services online   Resources for VLEs   Mobile Governance   See more ...This portal has been developed as part of the national level initiative - India Development Gateway (InDG), dedicated for providing information / knowledge and ICT based knowledge products and services in the domain of social development. InDG is a  Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY)  Government of India initiative and is executed by  Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Hyderabad.  About UsLink to UsContact UsHelpPortal PoliciesSite mapGive Your FeedbackDownload Vikaspedia App onLast Modified  16 February 2024 .   © 2024 C-DAC. All rights reserved.




English to Hindi Transliterate








